---
sidebar_position: 1
description: "An excruciatingly detailed discussion of the way C3 handles Entertainment."
---
# Entertainment

A house's access to entertainment is measured using a points scale, out of a maximum possible of 100. The different housing levels require different numbers of entertainment points. For the exact values, take a look at this page. There are two ways in which you can give a house entertainment points:

- With entertainment walkers
- With overall city coverage

## Entertainment Walkers

Whenever an entertainment walker passes a house, the house gains a number of entertainment points. This number depends on the venue with which the walker is associated. The larger (and more expensive) the venue, the more points the house receives. For the amphitheater and colosseum, there is a hefty bonus if the venue has two shows.

Walkers associated with a venue are:

1. Random walkers generated by the venue.
2. Destination walkers on their way to the venue from a performer school.

The points scale used is:

| Venue        | No. of Shows | Points |
| ------------ | :----------: | :----: |
| Theatre      |     n/a      |   10   |
| Amphitheatre |     0-1      |   10   |
| Amphitheatre |      2       |   15   |
| Colosseum    |     0-1      |   15   |
| Colosseum    |      2       |   25   |
| Hippodrome   |     n/a      |   30   |

The points provided by entertainment walkers decay over time (as may be seen visually on the entertainment overlays - the height of the columns indicating the points that a house has), so a house must be passed frequently by entertainment walkers to retain the full benefits of coverage.

## City Coverage

In addition to the point provided by the entertainment walkers, an additional 20 points are available for overall city coverage. Citywide coverage is reported by the entertainment advisor and is based on the number of venues of each type per head of population. 'Perfect' coverage requires one theatre for every 400 people, one amphitheatre for every 800, one colosseum for every 1500, and one hippodrome. The level of citywide coverage (the coverage index) for each venue is calculated as follows:

```math title="City Coverage Formula"
[Coverage index] = [Number of venues] * [Venue coverage] / [Population]
```

The coverage index is rounded down to 2 decimal places, and is never more than one. Your entertainment advisor then reports your citywide coverage as follows:

| Coverage Index | Advisor reports | Coverage Index | Advisor reports |
| :------------: | :-------------: | :------------: | :-------------: |
|      1.00      |     Perfect     |   0.40-0.59    |     Average     |
|   0.90-0.99    |    Excellent    |   0.30-0.39    |  Below Average  |
|   0.80-0.89    |    Very Good    |   0.20-0.29    |      Poor       |
|   0.70-0.79    |      Good       |   0.10-0.19    |    Very Poor    |
|   0.60-0.69    |  Above Average  |   0.00-0.09    |      None       |

To work out your bonus entertainment points, work out the coverage indices for the 4 venues (remember that for a Hippodrome, it's either 0 or 1), rounding to two decimal places. Then add the coverage indices together, multiply by five and round down.

Example: A city of 4175 people, with 4 theatres (coverage for 2000), one amphitheatre (800), one colosseum (1500), and one hippodrome (all of them)

```math title="Calculate the coverage indices"
Theatre:      2000 / 4175 = 0.479 rounds to 0.47
Amphitheatre:  800 / 4175 = 0.191 rounds to 0.19
Colosseum:    1500 / 4157 = 0.361 rounds to 0.36
Hippodrome:   1.00 rounds to 1.00
```

```math title="Add them up"
(0.47 + 0.19 + 0.36 + 1.0) = 2.13
```

```math title="Multiply by 5"
5 * 2.13 = 10.65
```

```math title="Round down"
10
```

Every house receives 10 'coverage' entertainment points, in addition to any it receives from walker coverage.

Unlike the points provided by entertainment walkers, overall coverage points do not decay with time. Of course, if your population changes, then your coverage indices, and hence possibly your coverage points, will change.

The points provided by walker coverage were first elucidated by Theo and catalina, two C3 Heaven regulars. The citywide coverage formula is my own, based on an analogous formula for Pharaoh, first proposed by Nero Would, a Pharaoh Heaven legend and supreme number-cruncher.
